# Setting

## Geographic Historical Background

https://coast.noaa.gov/slr/#/layer/slr/10/-13588232.41509018/4567934.240365662/10/satellite/none/0.8/2050/interHigh/midAccretion


The setting is the San Francisco Bay Area. The Big One struck and devastated cities along the San Andreas, including the Bay Area, which was hit the least dramatically but still pretty bad. It was the worst earthquake in SF history. Landslides devastated the hills, ground liquefaction submerged parts of the coastline where land was recovered in the 19th and 20th century, and tectonic plate settling submerged the western half of SF. Sea level rise from extreme climate change has submerged even more of the city, leading to a total effective sea level rise in the Bay Area of 10 feet. South Bay is mostly flooded along the coastal areas, and water has submerged most of the major corporate headquarters. Water has also eaten away at large chunks of East Bay and the rest of the bay coasts, as well as flooded into the Central Valley. Climate change has also destroyed the the Central Valley, rendering it a desert unable to grow food. Regional authorities had been trying to build a dam across the Golden Gate in the hopes of stopping sea level rise from devastating millions of lives but it was too little too late, and some conspiratorially minded people think it caused the earthquake since it sites right atop the fault line.

The result is that the usable land area of the Bay Area has dramatically reduced, while the need for housing, etc. has skyrocketed from displaced earthquake refugees and climate refugees. Cities had completely deregulated construction in the hope that more housing will be built, more business buildings, etc. Special economic zones are created to incentivize businesses to stay and even more to the Bay Area, to help with jobs and rebuilding, leading to a flourishing of corporate fiefdoms. The Chinese middle class flees increasing repression from the Xi Jinping regime flee to Silicon Valley, eager to take advantage of its history and new SEZs, and to build new connections with the now-desperate Silicon Valley tech sector. Hong Kong's re-integration into Mainland China exacerbates the exodus, as does flight from Taiwan, which was annexed after a PRC-sympathetic political party became popular and broke off defense agreements with the US (conspiracy theories abound as to why this happened). The building boom is enormous, and the Bay Area becomes an incredible megalopolis, similar to Hong Kong or Chongqing. Shitty low quality buildings flourish along side beautiful corporate utopias. Land reclamation happens again, but more extensively, as the bay is no longer off limits. Floating boat villages spring up and fill the bay where reclaimed land is not present, along side the massive solar farms, passive water desalination farms, and aquaculture food farms that the poor residents of the region work in. Cars are functionally banned because of the paranoia around further contributions to global warming, leading to the city being highly dense and packed full of trolleys and train systems.

The whole region is unrecognizable as the SF Bay Area of just 30 years earlier, and is now a growing megacity which, despite its small size, is quite densely packed. While it was already very multi-ethnic, the drastic reduction in livable inland and suburbs has re-urbanized the former non-white groups that fled to cheaper non-urban parts of the region. Immigrants here on H1-B visas to work in the tech sector have been granted functional residency as the corporations no longer worry about visa status and the government doesn't have the money to enforce immigration laws.

## Timeline
